notes.md, before:

# Notes

On learning how to build the Žižek Bot.

## Objective

Generate realistic-sounding sentences in the style of Slavoj Žižek.

Sentences do not need to be completely grammatically correct, but they should be sensical.

## Expected Iterations

1. Generate random collections of words sourced from a corpus (to start, ~5000 words).
1. Use word frequency analysis to make sentences that use words in realistic frequencies (i.e. more "the"'s than "australopithecus"'s).
1. Increase the corpus size to >100,000 words.
1. Figure out how to build sentences that are (mostly) grammatically correct. (I don't know how to do this, will require some research).
1. Load it all into a module with a command-line interface
1. Add a web layer (with Flask) & deploy to Heroku
1. Add Twitter integration (daily Zizek tweets)

## Known Knowns & Known Unknowns

I know that I know...

- Basic algorithms for word frequency analysis (make a hash map from a body of text 'word -> freq')
- Some Python
- That it is possible to generate new, unique sentences from a body of text (I believe this falls under the field of natural language processing, but not sure)
- How to build command-line and web interfaces, how to host web apps on Heroku, how to integrate with Twitter

I know that I don't know...

- Very much Python (will need a refresher, and likely run into speed bumps)
- How to do natural language processing
- What algorithms, libraries, tools are needed to make realistic-sounding
sentences

## Thoughts During Attempt

List comprehensions in Python are awesome, want to learn about these more.

First hangup: how to use word frequencies to generate a "more realistic" sentence? More-frequent words should be more likely to appear, but don't want to rule out words either. Need to work with probabilities. What if compiled word frequencies into a probability number and then used that to select a set of words? How is that different/better than just randomly selecting from the original list? What about alternating between high and low probability words?

## Resources Used

Python

- [Python Tutorial](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/)
- [Book: Natural Language Processing in Python](http://www.nltk.org/book/)

Computer Science:

- [Chapter 13  Case study: data structure selection](http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkpython/html/thinkpython014.html)
- [How to Think Like a Computer Scientist: Learning with Python](http://www.openbookproject.net/thinkcs/python/english2e/)

Commit message:

Notes on working through probable word selection

notes.md, after:

# Notes

On learning how to build the Žižek Bot.

## Objective

Generate realistic-sounding sentences in the style of Slavoj Žižek.

Sentences do not need to be completely grammatically correct, but they should be sensical.

## Expected Iterations

1. Generate random collections of words sourced from a corpus (to start, ~5000 words).
1. Use word frequency analysis to make sentences that use words in realistic frequencies (i.e. more "the"'s than "australopithecus"'s).
1. Increase the corpus size to >100,000 words.
1. Figure out how to build sentences that are (mostly) grammatically correct. (I don't know how to do this, will require some research).
1. Load it all into a module with a command-line interface
1. Add a web layer (with Flask) & deploy to Heroku
1. Add Twitter integration (daily Zizek tweets)

## Known Knowns & Known Unknowns

I know that I know...

- Basic algorithms for word frequency analysis (make a hash map from a body of text 'word -> freq')
- Some Python
- That it is possible to generate new, unique sentences from a body of text (I believe this falls under the field of natural language processing, but not sure)
- How to build command-line and web interfaces, how to host web apps on Heroku, how to integrate with Twitter

I know that I don't know...

- Very much Python (will need a refresher, and likely run into speed bumps)
- How to do natural language processing
- What algorithms, libraries, tools are needed to make realistic-sounding
sentences

## Thoughts During Attempt

List comprehensions in Python are awesome, want to learn about these more.

First hangup: how to use word frequencies to generate a "more realistic" sentence? More-frequent words should be more likely to appear, but don't want to rule out words either. Need to work with probabilities. What if compiled word frequencies into a probability number and then used that to select a set of words? How is that different/better than just randomly selecting from the original list? What about alternating between high and low probability words?

Used the "case study: data structure selection" link to guide process for probability-based word sampling. Probability selection algorithm caused some bikeshedding but not too bad.

## Resources Used

Python

- [Python Tutorial](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/)
- [Book: Natural Language Processing in Python](http://www.nltk.org/book/)

Computer Science:

- [Chapter 13  Case study: data structure selection](http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkpython/html/thinkpython014.html)
- [How to Think Like a Computer Scientist: Learning with Python](http://www.openbookproject.net/thinkcs/python/english2e/)
